README.md, before:

devstack-vagrant
================

This is an attempt to build an easy to use tool to bring up a 2 node
devstack environment for local testing using Vagrant + Puppet.

It is *almost* fully generic, but still hard codes a few things about
my environment for lack of a way to figure out how to do this
completely generically (puppet templates currently hate me under
vagrant).

This will build a vagrant cluster that is L2 bridged to the interface
that you specify in ``config.yaml``. All devstack guests (2nd
level) will also be L2 bridged to that network as well. That means
that once you bring up this environment you will be able to ssh
stack@api (or whatever your hostname is) from any machines on your
network.

Vagrant Setup
------------------------

Install vagrant & virtual box

Configure a base ``~/.vagrant.d/Vagrantfile`` to set your VM size. If you
have enough horsepower you should make the file something like:

    VAGRANTFILE_API_VERSION = "2"

    Vagrant.configure(VAGRANTFILE_API_VERSION) do |config|
        config.vm.provider :virtualbox do |vb|

             # Use VBoxManage to customize the VM. For example to change memory:
             vb.customize ["modifyvm", :id, "--memory", "8192"]
             vb.customize ["modifyvm", :id, "--cpus", "4"]
         end
    end

You can probably get away with less cpus, and 4096 MB of memory, but
the above is recommended size.

If the used hostnames in the ``config.yaml`` file (variable ``hostname_manager``
and ``hostname_compute``) are not resolvable you have to install the
``vagrant-hostmanager`` plugin (``vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager``).

If the nodes are still not able to communicate to each other even after
installing the ``vagrant-hostnamanger`` plugin (for example you get errors about
the compute node not being able to communicate to *cinder c-api* during the
*vagrant up* phase), set the variable ``use_ip_resolver`` in the ``config.yaml``
file to ``true``, in order to obtain the correct nodes ip.


Local Setup
--------------------
Copy ``config.yaml.sample`` to ``config.yaml`` and provide the
hostnames you want, and password hash (not password), and sshkey for
the stack user.

Then run vagrant up.

On a 32 GB Ram, 4 core i7 haswell, on an SSD, with Fios, this takes
25 - 30 minutes. So it's not quick. However it is repeatable.

If you want to speed-up the process, install the
[vagrant-cachier](https://github.com/fgrehm/vagrant-cachier) plugin in order
to let vagrant cache files, such as apt packages, with:

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-cachier


What you should get
-----------------------------------
A 2 node devstack that includes cirros mini cloud image populated in glance.
You can get other images population such as fedora 20, ubuntu 12.04,
and ubuntu 14.04, just with a small addtion to ``extra_images`` part
in ``config.yaml.sample``.

Default security group with ssh and ping opened up.

Installation of the stack user ssh key as the default keypair.

Enable additional services
------------------------
The devstack environment created by this `Vagrantfile` includes just the basic
services to get started with OpenStack. If you want to try more services, you
can enable them on the manager node through the ``config.yaml`` file.

For example if you want to enable
[Swift](https://docs.openstack.org/developer/swift), you can add the
following line to your ``config.yaml``:

    manager_extra_services: s-proxy s-object s-container s-account

Commit message:

Updated README to reflect all-in-one node

README.md, after:

devstack-vagrant
================

This is an all-in-one devstack environment using Vagrant and Puppet.
It was originally forked from https://github.com/openstack-dev/devstack-vagrant.
Below is the original README from that repo.

It is *almost* fully generic, but still hard codes a few things about
my environment for lack of a way to figure out how to do this
completely generically (puppet templates currently hate me under
vagrant).

This will build a vagrant cluster that is L2 bridged to the interface
that you specify in ``config.yaml``. All devstack guests (2nd
level) will also be L2 bridged to that network as well. That means
that once you bring up this environment you will be able to ssh
stack@api (or whatever your hostname is) from any machines on your
network.

Vagrant Setup
------------------------

Install vagrant & virtual box

Configure a base ``~/.vagrant.d/Vagrantfile`` to set your VM size. If you
have enough horsepower you should make the file something like:

    VAGRANTFILE_API_VERSION = "2"

    Vagrant.configure(VAGRANTFILE_API_VERSION) do |config|
        config.vm.provider :virtualbox do |vb|

             # Use VBoxManage to customize the VM. For example to change memory:
             vb.customize ["modifyvm", :id, "--memory", "8192"]
             vb.customize ["modifyvm", :id, "--cpus", "4"]
         end
    end

You can probably get away with less cpus, and 4096 MB of memory, but
the above is recommended size.

If the used hostnames in the ``config.yaml`` file (variable ``hostname_manager``
and ``hostname_compute``) are not resolvable you have to install the
``vagrant-hostmanager`` plugin (``vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager``).

If the nodes are still not able to communicate to each other even after
installing the ``vagrant-hostnamanger`` plugin (for example you get errors about
the compute node not being able to communicate to *cinder c-api* during the
*vagrant up* phase), set the variable ``use_ip_resolver`` in the ``config.yaml``
file to ``true``, in order to obtain the correct nodes ip.


Local Setup
--------------------
Copy ``config.yaml.sample`` to ``config.yaml`` and provide the
hostnames you want, and password hash (not password), and sshkey for
the stack user.

Then run vagrant up.

On a 32 GB Ram, 4 core i7 haswell, on an SSD, with Fios, this takes
25 - 30 minutes. So it's not quick. However it is repeatable.

If you want to speed-up the process, install the
[vagrant-cachier](https://github.com/fgrehm/vagrant-cachier) plugin in order
to let vagrant cache files, such as apt packages, with:

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-cachier


What you should get
-----------------------------------
A 2 node devstack that includes cirros mini cloud image populated in glance.
You can get other images population such as fedora 20, ubuntu 12.04,
and ubuntu 14.04, just with a small addtion to ``extra_images`` part
in ``config.yaml.sample``.

Default security group with ssh and ping opened up.

Installation of the stack user ssh key as the default keypair.

Enable additional services
------------------------
The devstack environment created by this `Vagrantfile` includes just the basic
services to get started with OpenStack. If you want to try more services, you
can enable them on the manager node through the ``config.yaml`` file.

For example if you want to enable
[Swift](https://docs.openstack.org/developer/swift), you can add the
following line to your ``config.yaml``:

    manager_extra_services: s-proxy s-object s-container s-account
